A big round of applause to welcome Mr. Younes Jaaidi,
developer and extreme programming coach from
Marmicode Wishtack.
A big round of applause, please.
Hello everyone.
Is that all the welcoming you got?
How are you all doing?
Okay, so we're going to start with you.
Okay, you're doing good?
So, I assume everyone is okay.
Okay, so thank you for having me here.
And I'm going to first start with a question.
Did you ever have to implement a live search form?
Like, you know, you don't want to hit the search button,
you want some type ahead or live search.
Who did that?
Okay, good.
Was it easy?
Was it fun?
Okay, no one.
Okay, good.
Then it makes my talk useful maybe.
So, my clicker isn't working.
Great.
And my finger.
Okay.
So, here it's simple.
I just want my search form to go hit my old grumpy API
that's going to fetch some data on a random database.
And the problem is I have some quick typing,
some fast typing users.
And it's going to fill my form quite quickly
and it's going to send a lot of requests to my API
then to my database which might,
I said it might, burn up all my servers and back end.
Okay, some of you will say,
"I don't care, I'm full serverless."
So, it's just going to pop a lot of instances of stuff.
And okay, maybe, but maybe you care about money.
So, you want to reduce your costs.
Okay.
So, how can we solve this?
How can we solve this?
Just think one second about what the first thing
that comes to your mind about how can we reduce
this load on our API and our database?
So, the first thing that comes to mind is,
does the clicker work?
Okay, it works.
So, the first thing that comes to mind is,
let's put some timer somewhere, like a debounce.
So, how does the debounce work?
It means we're going to slow down
how the data is sent to the API.
For instance, if I have a user who's writing Marmicode.
Okay, so he's typing quite fast.
And as you can see, the keyword string is getting
longer and longer,
but we're not sending it thanks to the debounce.
So, we'll see how we implement this,
but the debounce will wait for the user to stop
touching his keyboard for a few milliseconds
and then it's going to send that result, okay?
So, instead of sending nine requests to the API,
we reduce this to two requests because the user
somewhere slowed down in the middle and at the end.
Okay?
So, how does that work?
Are there any Angular developers here?
Okay, see ya.
Alright.
Okay, are there any RxJS users?
Are you familiar with RxJS?
Okay, so I'm going to explain RxJS
to your friends around you.
And so I don't have much time here.
So, how does RxJS work?
So, we have a stream of data somewhere like keywords$.
The $ is for streams, it's like a naming convention.
So, anyway, it's a stream of data, think about it like that.
And then we go through some pipes
which are like operators that will transform our stream
and we get the final results.
So, the first operator we'll be using is the debounce,
but first, when we create that observable,
it doesn't do anything until we subscribe.
And when we subscribe to that data,
we're going to call that console.log function
that will show the results on our console.
So, how does that work?
So, first, we're going to add the debounceTime operator,
which means it's going to wait for 100 milliseconds
before emitting any values,
if while the user is typing,
it's not going to emit any value.
And then we're going to make a query
thanks to the switchMap operator.
So, switchMap is a flattening operator,
which means it will fetch some asynchronous data
somehow with an observable
and it's going to produce it will emit the results, okay?
I'll put some slides at the end.
I'll put some link to some slides about how flattening
works in RxJS and which operators you should use.
So, here, the cool thing with switchMap is that
it will every time we have new keywords,
it's going to cancel the previous requests,
which is quite cool.
It will unsubscribe from the previous observable
and subscribe to the new one.
That way, it's going to cancel the previous request
and we don't have like parallel requests to the server.
Problem is with the debounce,
I have this thing which is artificial latency.
I mean, come on, we're all paying a lot of money,
a lot of time to make like zero latency stuff
and to reduce the latency everywhere
on our databases and everything.
And then we add this 100 milliseconds
hardcoded latency to the user input.
Isn't that crazy?
So, we have to get rid of this.
If I get rid of this,
it means I'm going to send a request to the API
for every keywords the user is writing.
And it will every time we have new keywords,
we're going to cancel the previous request
and send a new one.
So, how does that work?
Okay.
So, the thing is every time the user is sending new keywords,
we're going to cancel the previous request,
as you can see here.
Problem is, okay, we're canceling the previous request,
we're not consuming bandwidth and stuff,
but what happens on the back end?
Is the code still executed?
What happens with the database?
Is the query still executed?
Are we consuming CPU and RAM and stuff or not?
And what about calling another API somewhere?
Are we still waiting for the results or not?
What's happening?
We still don't know.
So, that brings us to this thing I want to share with you
is what happens when we cancel an HTTP request?
Because it's quite cool to cancel an HTTP request
when you don't need the data,
but is the API still working there or not?
So,
Let me present myself.
I'm Younes, from Lyon in France.
And I run a company called Marmicode.
We help companies cook like better apps through
consulting and extreme programming coaching.
I'm very passionate about extreme programming if you
want to talk about that.
And I'm also a Google Developer Expert for Angular
and web technologies,
which basically means I don't know everything about
web technologies, so just don't ask me everything.
But I can help you with that.
And I'm here to really help you and to connect you
with the right teams or resources if you need.
So if you have any questions about your experience
with frameworks, with the web today,
what can we do to help you, just let me know.
And the other thing I do is extreme programming
coaching.
So how to pair program, how to be more pragmatic,
how to write tests and stuff like that.
Okay, so without any advertising in between, let's
talk about NestJS.
Is anyone familiar with NestJS? Or heard of it?
Okay, good.
So NestJS is a feature-rich JavaScript framework for
the back-end, Node.js framework.
Based on Node.js.
So it's based on Express, but not only, you can use
other frameworks underneath.
And the cool thing, it's very inspired from Angular,
so we'll find a lot of similar concepts like
decorators, TypeScript and stuff like that.
So instead of explaining how Nest works, I'm going
to show you some code from Nest.
This is a controller that handles the `/files` route.
So the first thing you can see is that we have a
decorator that describes this.
Okay, so this is handled by `/files`.
And then we have the dependency injection, just like
in Angular.
So I'm going to inject the service called
`FileSearch`.
And we have a decorator here that says that this
method will handle the GET request.
And we can inject the query parameters through the
`@Query` decorator.
Cool. I mean, if you like decorators, it's really
cool.
And then I'm just going to search my files through
the service.
So the idea is, it's an API that will search files
through some query.
And return the result synchronously, for example,
here.
Problem is, we're not going to return a synchronous
result, of course.
We're going to do some asynchronous logic there.
And the cool thing is that Nest works also with RxJS
and observables.
So instead of returning a promise or something, I can
return an observable,
which has more features than a promise.
So I can just run `fileSearch` like before,
and I can pipe my operators to transform the data
and return that observable that will be transformed
to an HTTP response and sent to the client.
So why would I do that?
What's the why would I use an observable?
It's not a stream I have here, just having one
response.
So we need this because there is an interesting
feature in observables, it's cancellability.
I mean, I can cancel an observable.
Like I can subscribe to an observable, ask it for
work,
and then cancel, interrupt that work because I don't
need that data anymore.
So how does that work underneath in RxJS?
Well, it works like this, like you create an
observable manually like this with `setInterval`,
for example, which is not a great idea.
It's not how `interval` works in RxJS.
And this will produce a value every period.
But the cool thing is that I can keep the timer.
What does the timer do?
We need the timer when we use `setInterval` to clear
the interval,
you know, to interrupt it when we don't need that
data anymore.
So that's where we return our teardown logic.
So that's a great concept in observables is that we
return the kind of destructor,
you know, like the teardown logic that will be
executed when we unsubscribe from that observable.
So every time I unsubscribe from that data, I'm
like, "Oh, I don't need that data anymore."
It's going to clear the interval and stop the
`setInterval`.
Okay? So let's try it out.
Wait, got to put my coding clothes and let's cook
some code.
I hope it's not going to break the mic.
I'm the one who cooks at home.
It's not even true.
But okay, let's go.
Didn't work.
It's gone.
Okay, so where's my code?
So here we go.
I have the controller here, and it's calling the
service.
Is the zoom level okay back there?
Great.
And so let's search for the function.
So here, I'm returning just an observable, a
hardcoded observable with the data.
So let's create that observable.
I created, so the idea is I wanted to create, to
prove my point here,
I wanted to do something really slow.
I want to execute something really slow.
So I was like, "What can I query which is very
slow?"
So I thought, maybe if I have a big file in my file
system,
and I could search line by line, that could really
slow down the app.
And it worked quite well.
It was not very slow.
Then I thought, maybe if I have a lot of files,
like searching through a big directory with lots of
small files, that could be really slow.
Then I was like, where can I find a big directory
with lots of files?
Okay, let's just do it.
So, I created this couple of stupid functions just go
through node modules.
And here I have an observable that just pops out every
file path it finds.
So, I'm going to pipe, map it, and merge map and read
every lines I find in every path.
So, merge map just will mix all the results from all
the files.
So, for every file, I'm running a stream, I'm trying
to get a stream of all the lines in there.
Just reading line by line and creating an object for
every line which is like super unperformant and I love
it.
So, don't do this at home.
Or if you really don't like your company or something.
I don't know.
So, I'm filtering the lines.
So, every line is an object and I have the content
because I have like other fields, I guess.
I have the file and the number and I want the content
to include my keywords.
Yeah.
Here they are.
And then I don't want this to run for an hour.
So, and I want to group all the results in an array.
So, I'm going to use an operator called `bufferTime`.
So, it will just wait five seconds at most and group
everything in an array.
And at the end, I want just one array.
I don't want like lots of arrays.
Like once I get my first array, I'm going to stop.
And last step is here I'm getting all the lines and
what I really need is an objects with items inside.
I don't know why I did that.
I could have used just an array.
Anyway.
Okay.
Good.
So, this should be really unperformant.
So, let's check it out.
So, in order to have like some live memory and CPU
usage of my node app, I had to create like small app
for this.
You will find the source code at the end.
So, here, look at this.
Look at the network.
Every time I write something, the previous request is
canceled.
But look at my node.js app.
It's going crazy.
And now I get the results.
Or for example, suppose I just start searching a lot
of stuff.
So, every key is every time I add a character to my
keywords, it's running a search on the API and it
keeps running.
And even if I just send the keys and I close the
window, my back-end is still working at 100% CPU
which is not crazy.
So, it's quite a deception because I was expecting
that canceling the request on the browser would
unsubscribe from my observable on the back-end and
stop the processing, but it didn't work.
And so I had to dive into NestJS code and I realized
that somewhere it's just grabbing the observable and
running the `toPromise` method and grabbing the data
at the end and returning it with Express.
So, I had to find some way of detecting how the
request is interrupted and unsubscribe at that moment
from the observable.
So, let's go back to our slide.
So, we tried it out.
It didn't work as you already guessed.
So, it didn't work because as I said, Nest doesn't
unsubscribe automatically.
So, but NestJS has this common thing we have in great
frameworks in general is like concepts like
interceptors and stuff like that that allow us to
intercept every request.
So, here what I'm doing is that I'm just writing an
interceptor that grabs all that intercepts like every
request coming and then I have a parameter called
next, which is the handler that will really execute
the code.
It will, it's the, it will be mapped to the right
router there.
And of course, it's returning an observable because we
are using observables here.
So, this is just forwarding the request, nothing more.
So, I want to transform this.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the
request.
Well, I'm switching to HTTP because it could be like a
websocket or something.
And I'm subscribing from events is a function from
RxJS helps us subscribe to an event and unsubscribe at
the end from it.
So, I'm subscribing to the close event, which is
triggered by the socket, you know, from for that HTTP
request.
It works even with HTTP2.
So, and I have now an observable called close that
will trigger an event when the connection is shut
down.
But the cool thing is next.handle returns an
observable and there is a great operator in RxJS which
is called `takeUntil` that will subscribe to that
observable.
It will subscribe to the response until something
happens.
And here the something is close event.
So, it will subscribe until the connection is closed
and then it will unsubscribe.
So, just by adding this interceptor to my app, it
should work.
So, let's try it again.
Okay, getting all impatient.
And see what happens.
Where is my code?
So, here in my module, I'm just adding providers just
like in Angular.
I can add an interceptor and it's exactly the code
from my slide.
Almost exactly.
Well, anyway, it's exactly the same code.
And let's see what happens.
I didn't change anything in my code.
I'm just adding this interceptor.
Okay.
Look at this.
Okay, looks better.
Of course, it's slow because like it's reading node
modules, come on.
And now if I do this, send keys, you see, it's not
like 100% CPU, it's less.
And the cool thing is if I start a search and stop, it
immediately stops the processing on the back-end.
Or if I start search, then I just close the window, it
just stops all the processing on the back-end.
So, it's just like if our back-end detected that the
browser just shut down or the connection was canceled.
Okay.
Now, let's go a little bit further and instead of
using my file search service, going to use dependency
injection here and instead of using file search, I'm
going to use file search Mongo.
It's going to use MongoDB to do this and Mongo was
really super fast because I put like all the files in
MongoDB and every line and I couldn't slow it down
enough.
So, the only way I found is like this hacky ugly way
where I'm executing like a function in Mongo to check
every word in every line, which is not like the best.
Don't do this at home.
And but it's really super slow and I love it.
And the cool thing, so let us see how it works.
So, without our interceptor that does all the magic,
this is what we get.
Wait.
Stats service.
I'm going to watch MongoDB stats.
So, this is not the CPU and memory from my node.js,
it's the CPU and memory from MongoDB.
It's really slow.
It's not great.
Look at this.
100% CPU.
And even if I stop, it's just burning everything here.
So it's not working.
But once I just add my interceptor here, look at this.
Ooh, looks better.
So here it's really searching for every character.
Good.
Or let's search and then stop.
It's really interrupting the work on the database.
Closing the window, and it stops immediately.
So how does this voodoo magic work?
It's just because there's no more voodoo magic here.
It's just I wrote like this Mongo find function and I
create a session in Mongo lib when I do my query.
And in the teardown logic, I just go really hardcore
and I kill the session, which is something possible.
I don't think it's something you should do in
production, but do it and let me know how it works.
And because the `session.endSession` didn't cut down,
stop the request violently.
It's not very efficient.
But the `killSession` works quite well and I don't know.
I'd use it, but use it first, please.
Help yourself.
Okay.
So the click works?
Good.
So the idea is now what we change is that every time we
make a request, it's going to cancel the previous one.
And it will propagate the cancellation, which is really
cool.
It means like if you send a request to an API gateway,
the gateway will cancel the request on the next server,
the cloud function, and so on.
And you can cancel all the work if you have a way to
implement a teardown, which is not `killSession`, for
example.
Anyway, so every request will cancel the rest.
So the key takeaways are: think reactive.
It's not easy, but it's really worth it.
So we have it's a mind shift.
We have to think reactive.
It's another way of thinking.
We think about streams and stuff.
And the best way to learn is to practice.
Use observables even for single values.
Sometimes don't use observables, use promises because
we're like, "Oh, it's just one value and let's just
use a promise."
Use observables even if you have a single value because
you can cancel the request afterwards.
You can cancel the processing.
And do not ignore the teardown logic.
Implement it because sometimes we implement observables.
I'm like, "Oh, I'm just going to create an observable.
I don't care about the teardown.
I'm not going to do the `clearInterval`."
So there can be memory leaks there and CPU leaks.
And yes, you can use RxJS everywhere.
You can use it in Angular.
You can use it without Angular.
You can use it on the back-end with NestJS.
You can use it without Nest.
You can use it everywhere.
It's really cool.
You can use RxJS in your CLIs, like you write CLI
command, and you can use observables there.
So these are the key takeaways.
And almost the end, I guess.
And last thing is if you need any help, just get in
touch with us at Marmicode.
We do consulting, extreme programming coaching.
We do online consultations to help you like an hour
here and there to just unlock issues like, "I run a
`killSession` on my MongoDB" and such.
And do code reviews, so we can remove the `killSession`
stuff from your code.
And we do workshops and stuff like that on Angular and
extreme programming and JavaScript in general.
So you can find me online.
You can follow me on Twitter.
I'm going to share a blog post on this soon.
And you can get in touch through my email here and
through the website.
You can find the slides on `bit.ly/cancel-http`.
You will also find some slides for the RxJS flattening
strategies and stuff like that.
And I might add some links.
Like for example, if you have questions about where do
I learn RxJS and stuff, I can add links there later if
you want.
ขอบคุณครับ and one last thing before you go crazy, can
I take a picture with you, guys?
Yeah!
And you do like you pretend like it was really cool
talk, like the best ever, and like there is a huge
party outside.
I'm going there and raise your hands like crazy.
Throw out your t-shirts and stuff or all your clothes.
Yeah!
I don't know if I see it's just all blurry.
I'm really bad at selfies.
I should train at home.
And the guys from Hey, people from the top there!
Hey!
They have like gold tickets.
They're drinking champagne there.
Okay.
Well, thank you very much.
ขอบคุณครับ
Thank you, Younes.
Thank you.
Such a pleasure time to be with you.
อันนี้เป็นหัวข้อของคุณยูเนสนะค่ะ
ท่านไหนที่สนใจอยากจะคุยกับคุณยูเนสต่อ
ก็เรียนเชิญได้ที่ห้อง Q&A นะคะ
ออกจากเธียเตอร์แล้วไปทางขวา
จะมีห้อง Q&A อยู่ด้านข้างทางฝั่งขวานะคะ
So if you like to talk to him personally, คุณยูเนส
Jaaidi, we have a Q&A room once you go out from this
theater, turn right and you will see the Q&A room,
okay?
One more thing for me, one more reminder.
For anyone of you who haven't choose your special menu
for lunch yet, please enter to our browser.
No `www`, just `app.javascriptbangkok.com`.
`app.javascriptbangkok.com` because we have one more
session and then we're taking a break for our lunch
meal together.
So please choose your lunch meal, your lunch venue.
And once you choose your lunch meal, please show this
app, this browser to our staff on the seventh floor.
You will get the lunch coupon, okay?
You need to get the lunch coupon first.